In a place in La Mancha, whose name I don't want to remember, not long ago there lived a nobleman with a lance in a shipyard, an old-fashioned adarga, a skinny rocín and a running greyhound. A pot of something more cow than mutton, salpicón
the most nights, duels and quebrantos on Saturdays, lantejas on Fridays, some palomino
of addition on Sundays, consumed the three parts of his estate. The rest of the time, they wore a velvet sackcloth, fleece tights for the feasts, with their slippers of the same, and on the days of the
and the days of entreresemana was honored with his vellorí of the finest. He had in his
and a niece who was not yet twenty, and a farm hand who was a
and a farm hand who both saddled the rocín and took the pruning shears. The age of our
the age of our hidalgo with the fifty years. He was of stout build, dry of flesh,
wiry of face, a great early riser and a friend of hunting. They want to say that he had the nickname of Quijada, or Quesada, that in this there is some difference in the authors that
authors who write about this case, although by credible conjectures it is understood that his name was Quijana.
Quijana. But this matters little to our story: it is enough that the narration of it does not depart from the truth.
not depart one point from the truth.
It is, then, to be known that this aforesaid hidalgo, when he was idle -which were most of the year
the most of the year, he read books of chivalry with so much fondness and pleasure that he almost completely forgot the exercise of the
the exercise of hunting, and even the administration of his estate; and his curiosity and inanity became
so much curiosity and inattention in this that he sold many acres of farmland to buy books of chivalry in which to read, and so he took home as many of them as he could find.
he could find of them. And, of all of them, none seemed to him as good as those composed by the famous
the famous Feliciano de Silva, because the clarity of his prose and those intricate reasons of his
and the clarity of his prose and those intricate reasons of his seemed to him to be pearls; and even more so when he came to read those requiebros and letters
of challenges, where in many parts he found written: "The reason of the unreason that my reason
is made, in such a way my reason weakens, that I rightly complain of your fierceness. Y
also when I read: ...the high heavens which from your divinity divinely with the stars fortify you and
fortify you, and make you worthy of the merit that your greatness deserves. 